Hello and welcome.
Today we're going to talk about the importance of data.
How data can be analyzed.
How data can be visualized as illustrated here on this graph.
And we will also highlight two important fundamental concepts in statistics:
Central tendency & Variability
The goal is for you to walk away with a better understanding of statistics
so find a comfortable place relax and enjoy.
Let's first begin with a simple example
suppose you were tasked with recording the amount of customers
that walk into a restaurant every hour
At 2 p.m, there are 8 customers,
at 3, there are 4,
at 4 there are eleven and so on.
The restaurant closes at 11 p.m, after which you
tally up the total number of customers that came by to eat.
You find that on Saturday for example,
there were a total of 136 customers.
If you were to plot the data in a chart, it would look something like this.
You might have seen something like this before.
Google displays a similar graph online,
when you go to search up whether a place is busy or not.
Data is a big part of our daily lives.
In the next two videos, you will see animations that explain
common methods that people use in statistics
to make sense of data and derive insights from it.